DED-128 adding creating LiveChat apps guide (#1134)
livechat/livechat-public-docs: src/pages/getting-started/livechat-apps/index.mdx

  allowfullscreen
></iframe>

## Step-by-step guide

> If you want to know the whole creation process in detail, follow the instructions we’ve prepared. We'll use an app named Your Guide as our example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to know the whole creation process in detail, follow the instructions we’ve prepared. We'll use an app named **Your Guide** as our example.
```

### **Step 1 Getting started**

> Make sure you are signed in to the [Developer Console](https://developers.livechat.com/console/). Your LiveChat credentials should allow you to be logged in automatically. If not, you can [sign up here](https://accounts.livechat.com/signup?client_id=bb9e5b2f1ab480e4a715977b7b1b4279&redirect_uri=https%3A%2F%2Fmy.livechatinc.com&response_type=token&source_id=create_account_link&source_url=https%3A%2F%2Faccounts.livechat.com&source_type=accounts).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure you are signed in to the [Developer Console](https://developers.livechat.com/console/). Your LiveChat credentials should allow you to be logged in automatically. If not, you can [sign up here](https://accounts.livechat.com/signup).
```

> Now, we go to the **Apps** tab and click the **Create new app +** button. Give your app a name and click the **Continue** button. You can always change your name later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, we go to the **Apps** tab and click the **Create new app +** button. Give your app a name and click the **Continue** button. You can always change the application's name later.
```

Reviewer: your name sounded weird for me 😆

Author: now that you mentioned it, I agree xd

> 💡 **Need helping hand?** Right after signing in to the Developers Console, you can launch the **App wizard**. It will guide you through the whole app creation process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
💡 **Need a helping hand?** Right after signing in to the Developer Console, you can launch the **App wizard**. It will guide you through the whole app creation process.
```

<img

>   alt="Creating LiveChat apps step1"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  alt="Creating LiveChat apps step 1, App wizard"
```

Reviewer: I like to keep the alts a little more descriptive so we can keep it as inclusive as possible (and to make sure that the text-to-speech softs can read it without problems) :D

  src="/images/getting-started/livechat-apps/LiveChat-apps-step1.png"
  width="1515px"
  height="819px"
/>

### **Step 2 Adding Agent App Widgets block**

> You can configure your app using Building blocks which are components that form your app. Depending on which building block you add to your application, it will work differently. If you want to know how each building block can enrich your app, click the **Read docs** redirect and learn more about them. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure your app using Building blocks, which we can describe as components that form your app. Depending on which building block you add to your application, it will work differently. If you want to know how each building block can enrich your app, click the **Read docs** redirect and learn more about them. 
```

> You can configure your app using Building blocks which are components that form your app. Depending on which building block you add to your app, the app will work differently. If you want to know how each building block can enrich your app, click the **Read docs** redirect and learn more about them. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure your app using Building blocks which are components that form your app. Depending on which building block you add to your application, it will work differently. If you want to know how each building block can enrich your app, click the **Read docs** redirect and learn more about them. 
```

Reviewer: small change as there were couple "apps" :D

To create a simple frontend app, we'll use the **Agent App Widgets building block**. 

> Agent App Widgets are web apps loaded inside the LiveChat App. They can interact and communicate with the LiveChat App. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Agent App Widgets are web apps that can interact and communicate with the LiveChat App, loaded inside the LiveChat App interface.
```

Reviewer: I'm thinking of merging these two sentences into one as I felt like these two specific ones sounded kinda robotic when they were so short 😆 wdyt?

Author: agree :D

<img

>   alt="Creating LiveChat apps step2"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  alt="Creating LiveChat apps step 2, adding Agent App Widgets block"
```

>   src="/images/getting-started/livechat-apps/LiveChat -apps-step2.png"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  src="/images/getting-started/livechat-apps/LiveChat-apps-step2.png"
```

Reviewer: file name changed > this would need to be altered in the local branch separately, I explained it in more detail somewhere below

  width="1515px"
  height="819px"
/>

To add a new Agent App Widget to your application, you need to follow these steps:
1. Go to the **Building blocks** tab. 
2. Add a new Agent App Widgets block by clicking the **Get started** button. 
3. Enter the **Widget source URL**, which is the address of your application. If it's not ready yet, you can use our sample apps to play around.

> 4. Now, go to the **Widget placement** and choose one. It allows you to decide where exactly in the LiveChat App you want to display your integration. We have chosen Full screen application in our example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Now, go to the **Widget placement** and choose one. It allows you to decide where exactly in the LiveChat App you want to display your integration. We've chosen the **Full screen** option in our example.
```

5. The **Initial state** section is not required and works only for the Chat Details widget placement. It allows you to define the initial state for the Customer Details Widget. If you decide to use it, provide the state in the JSON format.

> 6. Click the **Continue button** and enjoy your app's first building block.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. Click the **Continue** button and enjoy your app's first building block.
```

> 6. Click the **Continue button** and enjoy your new app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Click the **Continue button** and enjoy your app's first building block.
```

Reviewer: At this state we don't yet have the app per-say, wdyt about switching it to building block instead?

<SectionLink to={"/getting-started/app-guides/agent-app-widgets#building-block-configuration"}>

>   💡 Take a look at guidelines on how to fill in Building blocks details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  💡 Take a look at guidelines on how to fill in Building blocks details
```

Reviewer 2: I don't know about you, but to me, having "." and ">" in such a close proximity doesn't look good

>   Take a look at guidelines on how to fill in Building blocks details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  💡 Take a look at guidelines on how to fill in Building blocks details.
```

</SectionLink>

<img

>   alt="Creating LiveChat apps step2.1"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  alt="Creating LiveChat apps step 2.1, configuring the Agent App Widgets block"
```

  src="/images/getting-started/livechat-apps/LiveChat-apps-step2.1.1.png"
  width="1515px"
  height="819px"

> />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  margin-top: 20px;
/>
```

Reviewer: I added this as there was just this very tiny space between the text and the image

>   src="/images/getting-started/livechat-apps/LiveChat-appsstep2.1.1.png"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  src="/images/getting-started/livechat-apps/LiveChat-apps-step2.1.1.png"
```

Reviewer: file name changed > this would need to be altered in the local branch separately, I explained it in more detail somewhere below

> ### **Step 3  Configuring Display details**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### **Step 3 Configuring Display details**
```

Now, it is time for the **Display details** tab that allows you to configure your app's short description and add an icon for better visibility in the LiveChat App.

Follow the steps below to add a description and icon:
1. Go to the **Display details** tab.
2. In the **Short description** section, add a one-sentence description of your app to make your users aware of what your app does, and save your changes. You can change the description later.
3. Add an icon for your app and save your changes. Your icon will be displayed on the Marketplace and the LiveChat App. You can drag and drop your image or browse your file manager for it.

<img

>   alt="Creating LiveChat apps step3"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  alt="Creating LiveChat apps step 3, configuring the Display Details"
```

>   src="/images/getting-started/livechat-apps/LiveChat-apps step3.png"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  src="/images/getting-started/livechat-apps/LiveChat-apps-step3.png"
```

Reviewer: file name changed > this would need to be altered in the local branch separately, I explained it in more detail somewhere below

  width="1515px"

>   height="819px"

Author: Okay, I think I understand what you mean, however, I will probably go back to you while working on some different images and calculating their size as I am not 100% sure if I get this part right '...from the "get info" dimensions of the exported image...'

/>

### **Step 4 Configuring Listing details**

The next step is adding a few details of your app’s functionalities to make it easier to understand for your users. 

To do that, go to the **Listing details** tab and fill in all the details.

<SectionLink to={"/monetization/app-review-process/#app-details"}>

>   How to fill in app details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  💡 How to fill in app details.
```

</SectionLink>

<img

>   alt="Creating LiveChat apps step4"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  alt="Creating LiveChat apps step 4, configuring the Listing Details"
```

>   src="/images/getting-started/livechat-apps/LiveChat-apps step4.png"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  src="/images/getting-started/livechat-apps/LiveChat-apps-step4.png"
```

Reviewer: file name changed > this would need to be altered in the local branch separately, I explained it in more detail somewhere below

  width="1515px"
  height="819px"

> />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 margin-top: 20px;
/>
```

Reviewer: same as with the above margin

### **Step 5 Testing your application **

> Before you publish your application on the Marketplace, you need to test it first to ensure that no bugs or errors appear. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you'll be able to publish your application on the Marketplace, you need to test it first to ensure that no bugs or errors appear. 
```

Reviewer: I added this as without it I felt like we're suggesting that the ultimate goal of this tutorial is to publish the app on our Marketplace 🤔

Author: okay, I agree when looking at it from this perspective, we have removed step 6 so this change is a good idea :)

To do that, you need to install your app privately on your LiveChat license by going to the **Private installation** tab and clicking the **Install app** button.

<img

>   alt="Creating LiveChat apps step5"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  alt="Creating LiveChat apps step 5, private installation"
```

>   src="/images/getting-started/livechat-apps/LiveChat-apps step5.png"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  src="/images/getting-started/livechat-apps/LiveChat-apps-step5.png"
```

Reviewer: file name changed > this would need to be altered in the local branch separately, I explained it in more detail somewhere below

  width="1515px"
  height="819px"
/>

> When the installation is done, you can return to your LiveChat App and refresh the website. After doing that, you’ll see your widget. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the installation is done, you can return to your LiveChat App and refresh the page. After doing that, you’ll see your widget. 
```

Please remember that your widget placement in the LiveChat App will depend on which widget placement you've chosen while creating the new Agent App Widget.

<SectionLink to={"/monetization/app-review-process/#common-problems"}>

>   Take a look at things to remember when testing the app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  💡 Take a look at things to remember when testing the app.
```

</SectionLink>

<img

>   alt="Creating LiveChat apps step5.1"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  alt="Creating LiveChat apps step 5.1, finding your app in LiveChat Application"
```

>   src="/images/getting-started/livechat-apps/LiveChat-apps step5.1.png"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  src="/images/getting-started/livechat-apps/LiveChat-apps-step5.1.png"
```

Reviewer: I suggest renaming the image files so they don't include spaces so it's consistent with our other pics names :D I already "changed" the naming in the tutorial so you can just change the file names on your local branch after we're set on the changes here

Author: got it :D I did not know that it may have some consequences for the future. I will remember that for the future :D

  width="1499px"
  height="596px"
/>

Congratulations!
Now, you can enjoy your simple application under your license. 

> If you want to build a public app, please go to the [App review process](https://developers.livechat.com/docs/monetization/app-review-process#header), where you’ll find out how to submit your application for review. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to build a public app, please go to the [App review process](https://developers.livechat.com/docs/monetization/app-review-process#header), where you’ll get all the necessary details on this process and find out how to submit your application for review. 
```

> If you want to build a public app, please go to the [App review process](https://developers.livechat.com/docs/monetization/app-review-process#header), where you’ll get all the necessary details on this process and find out how to submit your application for review. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to build a public app, please go to the [app review process page](https://developers.livechat.com/docs/monetization/app-review-process#header), where you’ll get all the necessary details on this process and find out how to submit your application for review. 
```

  width="1515px"
  height="819px"
/>

### **Step 2 Adding Agent App Widgets block**

You can configure your app using Building blocks, which we can describe as components that form your app. Depending on which building block you add to your application, it will work differently. If you want to know how each building block can enrich your app, click the **Read docs** redirect and learn more about them. 

To create a simple frontend app, we'll use the **Agent App Widgets building block**. 
Agent App Widgets are web apps that can interact and communicate with the LiveChat App, loaded inside the LiveChat App interface.

<img
  alt="Creating LiveChat apps step 2, adding Agent App Widgets block"
  src="/images/getting-started/livechat-apps/LiveChat-apps-step2.png"
  width="1500px"
  height="850px"
/>

To add a new Agent App Widget to your application, you need to follow these steps:
1. Go to the **Building blocks** tab. 
2. Add a new Agent App Widgets block by clicking the **Get started** button. 
3. Enter the **Widget source URL**, which is the address of your application. If it's not ready yet, you can use our sample apps to play around.

> 4. Now, go to the **Widget placement** and choose one. It allows you to decide where exactly in the LiveChat App you want to display your integration. We've chosen the **Full screen** option in our example.

Reviewer 2: I'd add a sentence that full screen apps are accessible from the menu on the left and that when opened, they take up the whole space in the LiveChat App (not the best wording but you know what I mean 😅). You can also link this section https://developers.livechat.com/docs/extending-agent-app#main-menu-fullscreen-apps

Author: Something like that will be fine?
'...We have chosen Full screen application in our example. In the LiveChat App, full screen apps can be found in the navigation bar on the left, and when you open them, the application is displayed fullscreen. If you want to learn more about full screen apps, [take a look at this section](https://developers.livechat.com/docs/extending-agent-app#main-menu-fullscreen-apps).'

Reviewer 2: I've shortened it a little:
'...We have chosen the Full screen application in our example. In the LiveChat App, Full screen apps are located in the navigation bar on the left, and they open maximized in the LiveChat App. [Learn more] (https://developers.livechat.com/docs/extending-agent-app#main-menu-fullscreen-apps).'

> 4. Now, go to the **Widget placement** and choose one. It allows you to decide where exactly in the LiveChat App you want to display your integration. We've chosen the **Full screen** option in our example. In the LiveChat App, Full screen apps are located in the navigation bar on the left, and they open maximized in the LiveChat App. [Learn more](https://developers.livechat.com/docs/extending-agent-app#main-menu-fullscreen-apps)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Now, go to the **Widget placement** and choose one. It allows you to decide where exactly in the LiveChat App you want to display your integration. We've chosen the **Full screen** option in our example. In the LiveChat App, Full screen apps are located in the navigation bar on the left, and they open maximized in the LiveChat App. [Learn more...](https://developers.livechat.com/docs/extending-agent-app#main-menu-fullscreen-apps)
```

Author: And I was thinking about these 3dots xd I will remember that :)

5. The **Initial state** section is not required and works only for the Chat Details widget placement. It allows you to define the initial state for the Customer Details Widget. If you decide to use it, provide the state in the JSON format.
6. Click the **Continue button** and enjoy your app's first building block.

<SectionLink to={"/getting-started/app-guides/agent-app-widgets#building-block-configuration"}>
  💡 Take a look at guidelines on how to fill in Building blocks details.
</SectionLink>

<img
  alt="Creating LiveChat apps step 2.1, configuring the Agent App Widgets block"
  src="/images/getting-started/livechat-apps/LiveChat-apps-step2.1.1.png"
  width="1500px"
  height="875px"

>   margin-top: 20px;

Reviewer: oops zapomniałam o cudzysłowiach :D 
```suggestion
  margin-top: "20px";
```

Author: already corrected xd

Follow the steps below to add a description and icon:
1. Go to the **Display details** tab.
2. In the **Short description** section, add a one-sentence description of your app to make your users aware of what your app does, and save your changes. You can change the description later.
3. Add an icon for your app and save your changes. Your icon will be displayed on the Marketplace and the LiveChat App. You can drag and drop your image or browse your file manager for it.

<img
  alt="Creating LiveChat apps step 3, configuring the Display Details"
  src="/images/getting-started/livechat-apps/LiveChat-apps-step3.png"
  width="1500px"
  height="865px"
/>

### **Step 4 Configuring Listing details**

The next step is adding a few details of your app’s functionalities to make it easier to understand for your users. 

To do that, go to the **Listing details** tab and fill in all the details.

<SectionLink to={"/monetization/app-review-process/#app-details"}>
  💡 How to fill in app details.
</SectionLink>

<img
  alt="Creating LiveChat apps step 4, configuring the Listing Details"
  src="/images/getting-started/livechat-apps/LiveChat-apps-step4.png"

>   width="1515px"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  width="1500px"
```

>   height="819px"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  height="865px"
```

>  margin-top: 20px;

Author: already corrected xd

  allowfullscreen
></iframe>

## Step-by-step guide

If you want to know the whole creation process in detail, follow the instructions we’ve prepared. We'll use an app named Your Guide as our example.

### **Step 1 Starting in the Developers Console**

Make sure you are signed in to the [Developer Console](https://developers.livechat.com/console/). Your LiveChat credentials should allow you to be logged in automatically. If not, you can [sign up here](https://accounts.livechat.com/signup?client_id=bb9e5b2f1ab480e4a715977b7b1b4279&redirect_uri=https%3A%2F%2Fmy.livechatinc.com&response_type=token&source_id=create_account_link&source_url=https%3A%2F%2Faccounts.livechat.com&source_type=accounts).

Now, we go to the **Apps** tab and click the **Create new app +** button. Give your app a name and click the **Continue button**. You can always change your name later.

> <Warning>

Reviewer 2: I would replace this Warning with a bulb icon and reserve the yellow component for more warning type info. This one is more "nice to know"

</Warning>

<img
  alt="Creating LiveChat apps step1"
  src="/images/getting-started/livechat-apps/LiveChat-apps-step1.png"
  width="1515px"
  height="819px"
/>

### **Step 2 Forming your app using building blocks**

Building blocks are components that form your app. Depending on which building block you add to your app, the app will work differently. If you want to know how each building block can enrich your app, click the **Read docs** redirect and learn more about them. 

For our guideline, we’ll use the **Agent App Widgets building block**. 
Agent App Widgets are web apps loaded inside the LiveChat Agent App. They can interact and communicate with the LiveChat Agent App. 

<img
  alt="Creating LiveChat apps step2"
  src="/images/getting-started/livechat-apps/LiveChat -apps-step2.png"
  width="1515px"
  height="819px"
/>

To add a new Agent App Widget to your application, you need to follow these steps:
1. Go to the **Building blocks** tab. 
2. Add a new Agent App Widgets by clicking the **Get started** button. 
3. Enter the **Widget source URL**, which is the address of your application. If it's not ready yet, you can use our sample apps to play around.

> 4. Now, go to the **Widget placement** and choose one. It allows you to decide where exactly in the Agent App you want to display your integration. We have chosen Full screen application in our example.

Author: Screen with Chat Details is a default screen that appears right after opening. If you change it for the Full screen, the initial section automatically disappears. So I couldn't choose Full screen and still have the initial section visible on the screen. But I understand your point :) In that case, maybe I will change the last sentence and write - We're going to choose Full screen application in our example. What do you think?

> 5. The **Initial state** section is not required. However, it allows you to build the initial state for the Customer Details Widget (JSON format).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. The **Initial state** section is not required and works only for the Chat Details widget placement. It allows you to define the initial state for the Customer Details Widget. If you decide to use it, provide the state in the JSON format.
```

> 6. Click the **Continue button** and enjoy your new widget.

Reviewer 2: Where possible, we're trying to avoid the word "widget".

<img
  alt="Creating LiveChat apps step2.1"
  src="/images/getting-started/livechat-apps/LiveChat -apps-step2.1.png"
  width="1515px"
  height="819px"
/>

### **Step 3 Display details**

> Now, it is time for the **Display details** tab that allows you to configure your app's short description and add an icon for better visibility in the Agent App.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now, it is time for the **Display details** tab that allows you to configure your app's short description and add an icon for better visibility in the LiveChat App.
```

Reviewer 2: Where possible, we replace Agent App with LiveChat App/LiveChat Application.

Reviewer 2: You can apply the same change in other places.

Follow the steps below to add a description and icon:
1. Go to the **Display details** tab.
2. In the **Short description** section, add a one-sentence description of your app to make your users aware of what your app does, and save your changes. You can change the description later.

> 3. Add an icon for your app and save your changes. Your icon will be displayed in the Marketplace and the Agent App. You can drag and drop your image or browse your file manager for it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Add an icon for your app and save your changes. Your icon will be displayed on the Marketplace and the Agent App. You can drag and drop your image or browse your file manager for it.
```

To do that, you need to install your app privately on your LiveChat license by going to the **Private installation** tab and clicking the **Install app** button.

<img
  alt="Creating LiveChat apps step5"
  src="/images/getting-started/livechat-apps/LiveChat-apps step5.png"
  width="1515px"
  height="819px"
/>

When the installation is done, you can return to your LiveChat Agent App and refresh the website. After doing that, you’ll see your widget. 

Please remember that your widget placement in the LiveChat Agent App will depend on which widget placement you've chosen while creating the new Agent App Widget.

<SectionLink to={"/monetization/app-review-process/#common-problems"}>
  Take a look at things to remember when testing the app.
</SectionLink>

<img
  alt="Creating LiveChat apps step5.1"
  src="/images/getting-started/livechat-apps/LiveChat-apps step5.1.png"
  width="1499px"
  height="596px"
/>

Congratulations!
Now, you can enjoy your simple application under your license. If you want to build a public app, please take a look at the next step, where you’ll find out how to submit your application for review.

> ### **Step 6 Send your application for review (optional)**

Reviewer 2: @oliwiapolec, do you think we should keep this section? Maybe it would be better to leave one sentence and redirect to the App review process document?

Reviewer 2: App review process is quite complex so one paragraph doesn't suffice to explain it, and at the same time, we want to keep this tutorial simple so adding extra info about app review would be counter-productive
